Okay, hello and welcome to
Advanced Core Data Usages,
session 143.
I'm not Ben Trumbull, I am, however,
Melissa Turner.
We helped build Core Data and they,
in exchange, made us get up on stage
and tell you all about it.
So this is what we hope you
already know about Core Data.
Core Data is a model-driven object graph
management and persistency framework.
It provides scalable object
lifecycle management,
automatic undo/redo support,
user interface synchronization through
our integration with the Cocoa bindings.
We help ensure data
consistency and correctness,
and we take care of reading and writing
to various types of files for you.
Why do you want to use Core Data?
Okay, can I get a show of hands?
Everybody here who's written
a piece of code that,
well, they knew somebody else
out there had implemented,
they maybe even knew the implementation,
they just decided they
could do it better,
so they had to write it?
Can I get a show of hands for this?
And how many of you who aren't
putting up your hands are just
lying to me or yourselves?
'Cause I suspect it's the rest of you.
We believe you of having
to reinvent the wheel.
We think we did a pretty good job of it,
and quite honestly,
it's probably better than
you're going to do yourself,
so we think you should use it.
It'll give you a faster
development cycle.
Every line of code you don't
have to write and test,
well, that's a line of code you
can spend writing and test,
or the time you can spend writing,
you know, features that your customers
are going to find unique and
interesting about your application.
It's likely going to give you
a more robust application.
We test the heck out of this stuff.
We've released it to all of you guys.
You build stuff.
You go down through code
paths that we really didn't
think people would ever try,
so we're pretty sure
there's not a lot of bugs,
and we're devoted to fixing those,
the ones that there are,
and that's something you can't guarantee
if you write the code yourself.
And, you know,
it prepares your application
for future features in Cocoa.
We don't know what those features are,
but, you know,
if somebody comes along and, say,
switches your architecture, you know,
processor architecture
out from under you,
That's code you don't have
to worry about porting.
We're going to have to do it.
What are we going to cover this session?
Well, a bunch of things.
We're going to cover the general
architecture of Core Data,
the individual components,
how they fit all together.
We're going to talk about
some advanced topics,
some of the tougher questions
you're going to have to ask
yourselves or run across when
you're building an application.
And we're going to talk about some
of the decision points and the
things to think about when you're
building a Core Data application.
So Core Data architecture is essentially
built from a bunch of components.
There's the models that
define how data looks.
There's the managed objects
and the object context that
are the living representations
of data in your application.
There's predicates and fetch requests
which specify which particular
object or objects you want to be
working with at any point in time.
And there's object stores and
store coordinator that take care
of putting your objects to sleep
between runs of your application.
We're integrated with Cocoa through
the NS document architecture
and through the controllers.
We've got a design tool in Xcode that
if you were at any of the earlier
Core Data sessions you've already seen,
that can allow you to create data models.
And Xcode includes templates for
creating Core Data applications.
You hopefully have
seen this slide before.
This is the Core Data basic architecture,
or what we call the persistent stack.
Starts all the way up at the
top with managed objects,
which are contained in a
managed object context,
which fetch them using a fetch request
from a persistent store coordinator,
using the managed object
model from a persistent store.
Those are all the basic pieces.
That's sort of how they
connect left to right.
Managed Object Model.
As Matt said in his
intro session earlier,
Managed Object Model is possibly the
most important piece of the application.
It's the piece that defines what the
data in your application is and how it
relates to itself or other pieces of it.
It's an interaction diagram for
interaction between application
data types and objects.
Designing a data model allows
you to focus on the architecture
of your application rather
than control flow through it.
And it's pretty much the baseline
for doing model-based development.
If you don't know what your model is,
you pretty much can't be
doing model-based development.
There's two main elements
to a managed object model.
There's entity descriptions
and configurations,
telling you how those entity
descriptions are related to each other.
Here's the basic Core Recipes model that
is on the CD that all of you should have.
We'll probably make references
to this during the talk when we
draw our little example cases.
So what's in a model?
Models have entities,
which have attributes, relationships,
and fetch properties.
Models also have fetch request templates,
which are templates specifying
how to fetch certain subsets of
objects from your object stores.
And they have configurations,
which are strings used to
label sets of entities,
which allow you to specify which set
of entity goes to which object store.
An entity, what's an entity?
Well,
it's a named collection of attributes,
properties, relationships.
There's several types of properties,
attributes.
These are essentially your IVARs.
They contain the value
data for your objects,
scalars, NSValue classes.
There's also relationships.
These contain interaction information
about how your objects interact.
This chef object has a bunch of recipes.
This recipe has a bunch of chefs.
This recipe has a bunch of ingredients.
Those are your relationships.
They're essentially pointers
to other managed objects.
There's also fetched properties,
which are much like fetch requests,
which are relationships
specified by a predicate.
This allows you to specify weak
unidirectional relationships.
And there's a number of special predicate
variables that are in our documentation
that you can read about that allow you
to do interesting things specifying
relationships from target object.
And one thing to note about
fetched properties is they
only refresh when the object,
the instance of the entity
they're on is refreshed.
Thank you.
Properties.
As I said, they're the data containing
elements of an entity.
They're the values, the scalers,
the NS values, they're the pointers.
They can be transient or persistent.
Transient properties are really,
really useful.
They can be used for storing cached
data that was calculated during your
application processing that's not
really important enough that you
want to save it to disk anywhere.
They can hold unsupported data types.
This is a good way to store NSColor and
NSRect or any of your custom data types,
very simple ones that you want to
have us do change tracking for.
You can use transient properties
to model cross-store relationships.
We'll get into that in
a lot more detail later.
And you can use them to
store derived properties,
which is properties whose
value is computed from one or
more other properties on an
object or on related objects.
Relationships.
These are your pointers.
Relationships are sets.
They are not arrays.
There's no ordering.
We'll talk about that on
the next couple of slides.
But it's important to remember
that unless you explicitly
specify an order in your UI,
if you put an NSArray controller
on top of a set,
the order is not guaranteed to come
back the same from time to time.
It also gives you unique correlations,
which means that an object
can only be in that set once.
Core Data manages inverse
relationships for you.
Any relationship,
when you think about it,
really is two ways.
A chef has recipes, recipes have chefs.
What Core Data does is allow you to,
when you create a recipe and set
that recipe chef to be chef A,
then we will automatically
go in to chef A and say,
"This chef has a new recipe," and we'll
tidy up that back pointer for you.
This means that you have to
specify delete rules when
you create a relationship,
so we know what should happen
if you delete an entity that has
relationships to other objects.
If you specify the nullify delete rule,
we'll simply go through and
find all the objects on the
other end of the relationship
and nullify the back pointer.
This object no longer exists.
We can have a cascade delete rule
that says if we delete a Chef object,
then we also want to delete all of
the recipes associated with that Chef.
There's the deny delete rule,
which is if I try and delete
a Chef which has recipes,
I'm not allowed to do that until
I assign the recipes to some other Chef.
There's also the no action delete rule,
which says, okay, Core Data,
don't you do anything.
I'm going to take care of it myself.
If you use this one,
you are fundamentally going
to be responsible for fixing
up all of the back pointers.
Relationships, as I said,
are not ordered.
Why?
Because when you really think about it,
most data isn't ordered.
If you have employees,
what's the inherent order of employees?
You can order them by first name,
you can order them by last name.
Employee number is a popular one.
There's hire date.
If you're having some
kind of company photo op,
you might want to order them by height.
There is no inherent order
in how employees are ordered.
Same for books.
Title, ISBN, Library of Congress number,
Dewey Decimal number.
If you're an interior decorator,
it may be color.
Some data are inherently organized,
though.
If you have entries in a ledger,
it doesn't really make sense to look
at entry A without the context of
all of the entries came before it.
It's really hard to tell if you're
going into overdraft on your checking
account if you don't know what
order you made transactions in.
Customers do, however, like order.
They like to see things in
predictable ways in their UI.
So you really have to ask yourself
when you're designing an application,
Do you really need order or do you
just need the appearance of order?
If what you really need fundamentally
is the appearance of order,
it's kind of arbitrary,
users can switch it
around however they want,
there's a few ways to achieve that.
You can use fetch requests and specify
a sort order on the fetch request,
which will say,
this is the order the array in which
we return objects should be sorted.
Can you sort orderings on the
array controller using bindings?
Or you can,
if you've just shoved all your
managed objects into an array,
you can use NSArray sorting methods,
also use sort descriptors.
The tricky problem is if you have,
you really, really need order.
That's a complicated case,
and in that case you're going
to have to explicitly create an
order attribute on your object.
And when you do that,
you take responsibility for
explicitly maintaining that attribute.
Anytime something gets added to a set,
you're going to have to figure
out what the ordering is,
and you're going to have to
set that order attribute.
Something gets removed,
you're going to have to remove that
and go through and clean up the order
attributes on all of the other objects.
Skipping over to loading models,
how do we load a model?
We've created one, presumably in the
Core Data modeling tool.
Now I want to load it in
my application's runtime.
There's a few ways to do that.
If you've just got a single model,
use init with contents of
URL on NSManagedObjectModel.
If you've got multiple models,
you're a framework or you're an
application loading a number of
models from a number of frameworks,
then there's a couple ways to do it.
You can tell NSManagedObjectModel,
merge model from bundles,
and pass it an array of bundles.
We'll go through, find all the managed
object models in those,
create a merged model from it.
You can also do model by merging models.
You can go off and specifically pick
the models on the system that you
want loaded into your application.
Use model by merging models.
There is one caveat to this,
which is that there can't
be any entity overlap.
If those models that you're loading and
trying to create a merged model with
contain any entities with the same name,
you're going to get an error.
If you're using configurations,
those configurations will be
merged during the merging as well.
So if you have a configuration in
Model A named public and you have a
configuration in Model B named public,
all entities in both of those
public configurations in your
merged model are going to end
up in a public configuration.
So that's something you have to
think about if you're doing a
configuration-based application.
This is something we've had a
few questions about this week,
so we rushed and harassed our graphic
designers to put in a slide about it.
What's good model design?
Well,
there's a few things you should keep
in mind when you're building a model,
just in terms of how data is
loaded from the disk and how
objects relate to each other.
If you've got a really large data object,
you know, a movie, a picture,
Chef's homepage in its entirety,
you probably want to put that at the
other end of a to-one relationship.
What this does is allows you,
when your entity is instantiated,
to avoid the overhead of actually
loading in all of that data
if you don't actually need to.
This is a way of essentially
lazy loading large blobs of data.
Something else to think about is
that you can't query an NSData type.
It just doesn't work in most
databases or data stores.
So you might want to consider,
if it's a large text blob,
consider extracting the
bits of information that
you might want to search.
on.
These last two points
are kind of complicated.
You want to normalize your data
sets so you can avoid having
duplicate data in your database.
In the Chef's Re-- the
Core Recipes example,
you don't want to have the
chef name on every single
instance of an entity because,
well,
It's space consuming and it's a pain
in the neck if the chef goes off,
gets married, and changes their name.
So you want to normalize
that out as much as possible.
The problem is that joins,
which is following
relationships between objects,
is expensive.
So you also want to consider
denormalizing data that you know you're
going to be searching on frequently.
So you have to play this balancing game.
And there is no one right or wrong
answer that will fit all applications.
You really have to look at your
data set and how you think your
users are going to be querying it
in order to determine where various
pieces of information need to live.
And something we've also run across
is the data migration question.
You write version one of your
application that has model version one.
But when you listen to your customers,
they say, "Oh, we need this new feature.
Oh, we need this new feature.
And why won't you let us store
that piece of information?"
You come up with v2 of your model and
it's got all that new information.
How do you read those old model files?
Users aren't going to
be happy if you say,
"Oh, well, this is v2 of my application.
Just forget all of those old files.
You're not allowed to use them anymore."
you come up with v2 of your model and
it's got all that new information.
How do you read those old model files?
Users aren't going to
be happy if you say,
oh, well, this is v2 of my application,
just forget all of those old files,
you're not allowed to use them anymore.
But the basic principle is you
create two separate stacks,
one with the old model,
one with the new model,
you load objects into the old stack,
you copy the data out of
them into new objects,
which you then insert in
the new stack and save.
You'll notice implied there is
the fact that you have to keep
your old model around to do this.
Don't just go edit your new
model without having a copy
stuffed off in CVS somewhere.
Some tips and tricks to make this
a little bit less painful than
it sounds and a little bit less
memory consuming than it could be.
You can do multiple passes
across your old data,
move discrete chunks of the
object graph separately.
If you've got little pieces
that live off in their own world
that are only connected to,
you know, themselves, move those first,
then move other chunks,
and eventually it'll all be there.
This helps minimize memory use,
which can be really important if you've
got a sufficiently large data set.
And models can be modified at runtime,
so you can temporarily disable
validation things that would
make doing multiple passes hard.
You can use managed objects instead
of custom subclasses if you really
don't need all the overhead that goes
into the business logic on those.
And like I said,
there's an upgrade example
on the WWDC source CD.
And now I'm going to
hand you over to Ben,
who's going to tell you
all about managed objects.
Great.
Thank you, Melissa.
And now I'm going to
hand you over to Ben,
who's going to tell you
all about managed objects.
Great.
Thank you, Melissa.
And now I'm going to
hand you over to Ben,
who's going to tell you
all about managed objects.
Great.
Thank you, Melissa.
So you're going to get the data
from your rows or your XML nodes.
These are the things that
you're going to fetch.
You're going to insert, save, delete.
If you're looking for a Core Data noun,
the subject of an operation,
it's going to be a managed object.
and each managed object is described
by a single NAD description,
and those are in your model.
They possess a unique managed object ID,
which we'll talk a little
bit more about later,
but every managed object
has a managed object ID,
and they're associated with a
single managed object context,
and the context is what's responsible
for managing changes and stuff like that,
and we'll have a whole section on that.
Managed objects are the objects
that you're gonna subclass,
so you can implement custom
business logic on these classes,
you can implement the
framework callbacks,
we'll go over those,
and you can also implement
custom validation,
and all managed objects respond to key
value coding and key value observing,
so you can use the root NSManageObject
class to get a whole lot of work done.
You can just, you know, value for key,
set value for key,
and that's gonna get you pretty far.
So the life cycle of a managed object is
a little bit different than an NS object.
[Transcript missing]
So all the objects, like I mentioned,
have key value coding and
key value observing support.
And Core Data provides this
over all of the properties
you've described in your model.
So Core Data will look at the entity
and make sure that all of those
objects have space and respond to that.
So there are mutable proxies
for key value coding.
In Panther,
there's a mutable array proxy,
and in Tiger now there's
a mutable set proxy.
And these are the proxies that you're
gonna use on your too many relationships.
As Melissa described,
your too many relationships are
always sets and they're unordered.
And you can use this mutable proxy
to make changes to that that'll
post KVO notifications for you
and handle most of the issues.
And managed objects,
you can use the standard
KVO dependent key notifications.
And it's just a little caveat
down here at the bottom.
Remember that key value coding
is only gonna do a retain.
It's not gonna do a copy.
So we've had a few people, you know,
they'll pass in a mutable
string to say a name property,
right,
and they didn't realize that we didn't
create a copy form 'cause we're just
using standard key value coding.
So that's not gonna work.
So on managed objects,
we also implement something
called primitive key value coding.
And the difference here is key
value coding and your public
assessors issue KVO notifications.
They maintain relationships for you.
You'll look in,
if you've seen the examples or
in some of the other sessions,
a lot of the inverse maintenance
just happened for you.
When you deleted objects
in the hands-on session,
they showed how you
can propagate a delete.
So if you delete a recipe,
you also delete the chef that's
associated with that recipe.
And you can just see that all happen,
right?
Primitive key value coding
doesn't do any of that.
This is here as a way,
both for the framework and for yourself
to just move properties in their backing
store around in a very primitive way.
It doesn't go through any of
the key value coding accessors.
It doesn't perform validation,
argument checking, any kind of integrity
maintenance or type coercion.
It's just a way to move properties
around in a very primitive way.
And it's basically here for when
you subclass a managed object
and you need to get at where the
framework has put the storage and
you need to move it around for
implementing your own accessor methods.
So as I mentioned, every managed object
has a managed object ID.
And this identifies the managed
object across applications.
It's scoped to the particular file that
that managed object has been saved in.
So it's unique to that file.
And as I keep mentioning,
they're vaguely analogous to a unique
XML node or a unique SQLite row.
They can be archived as shown
in a bunch of the sessions
before the UI representation.
You can take that URI representation
and you can customize it.
You can pass it to launch services.
If you saw in the Core Recipes example,
you can export a recipe to RTF.
And there's a little link in
there that you can click and
come back into the Core Recipes.
And that's done by turning an object
ID into its URI representation.
So just a couple of things to note.
When you're passing the URIs around,
you can use object with ID on the
context to get back the real object
that's associated with that ID.
And you can also do a fetch.
So you can write a predicate that
says self equals whatever the ID is.
And the framework will take that
predicate and we'll find the row where
basically that object has that ID.
Using the fetch request is
probably better when you're passing
around the URI representations,
because while someone's looking at the
RTF file that has the little URL link,
someone else might've gone through
and in the Core Recipes example,
deleted the object.
So doing a fetch will make sure
that the object's actually still
there and will give you back zero
results if it's been deleted.
Object IDs are pretty much the only
thing from Core Data you can pass around
with impunity in a thread safe manner.
And it's important to keep
around that temporary objects,
things that have been newly inserted,
also have temporary IDs.
So if you're going to hand off
this object ID to something else,
then you should probably save the
object first or take that into
consideration that the ID will
change when the object gets saved.
Similarly, if you do a store migration,
it's very easy to do on the
persistent store coordinator,
convert a store, do a save as basically,
all those object IDs are going
to change because the object
IDs are scoped to the file,
to the store that that object is in.
So as I said, NSManageObject is basically
your opportunity to subclass
here in the framework,
get callbacks.
and it's just important to note
that the framework is kind of
responsible for maintaining
the lifecycle of these objects.
When you do a fetch,
you don't have to worry
about initializing,
alloc-initing these things.
The framework goes off, finds them,
takes the rows,
and gives you back objects.
It's also important not to use init.
You need to use initWithEntity,
insert into ManageObject context.
And the reason for that is we
have to know what the entity is.
We can't do anything useful
with ManageObject if you
just pass it a blank init.
And another thing is you should do
your cleanup in didTurnIntoFault,
and I'll explain exactly what
faults are a little bit later,
but this is actually where the
framework releases all the data
associated with that ManageObject.
And in doing this instead of
dialog is important because both
with init and within dialog,
the object isn't in sort of the state
that you're used to dealing with it.
The framework isn't done, for instance,
initializing the object
at the end of init.
It's got to associate it with the
context and do a bunch of other things.
And in the same way, in dialog,
you may no longer have
a ManageObject context.
So the object is kind of,
it's coming into existence
or leaving existence,
and it's not in the same state that you
would expect it to be in when you're
working with it most of the time.
So you just need to
be careful about that.
And for that reason,
we have a bunch of callbacks here
that make it a little bit easier,
awake from fetch and awake from insert.
And these are called after the object
has been completely initialized
and the framework is done doing
everything it needs to do with it,
and it hands you back, you know,
to the object.
It hands you back your ManageObject,
and it will call awake from fetch
on it after it's fetched it.
And this is a place where
you can initialize things.
You can set transients.
You can set default values.
You can hook up
cross-store relationships,
which is something that you kind of
have to do a little work with yourself.
Awake from insert is when
the object is newly created.
You get that.
DidTurnIntoFault is the method that
basically the framework will call.
This is, you know,
the object is sort of going to sleep.
It's being cleaned up.
You don't need any of your resources.
You don't need any of
your resources anymore.
This is a good place to call back into.
WillSave and DidSave will happen when
the context is saving the object.
So that's if you want to,
you want to update a last
save timestamp or something.
WillSave is a good place for that.
And DidSave is just the inverse.
And then the validation callbacks
are there where you can do some very
customized validation on your object.
All these methods are
in nsmanageobject.h.
There are comments in the header file,
so.
and I will be talking about the core
data application in a little bit.
It's a little more efficient
if you let Core Data manage
the space for the properties.
So Core Data knows about all the
properties you've declared in the model,
and it's easier for us when
we fetch a row or a reading
from XML to just basically slap
stuff down in our own storage.
You can put attributes in your own
IVARS if you want to on a subclass.
You can do that.
It's mandatory for too many relationships
and fetch properties that you let us do
that because we don't actually expose
the actual class that those objects are.
And for too many relationships,
we encourage you to use the
immutable set value for key proxy.
It's gonna be more efficient than
writing your own accessor methods.
It'll be a little bit faster.
You can use your own accessor methods
if you have aesthetic reasons,
you feel like it, but for the most part,
encourage the framework
to just do its thing.
You can use these IVARs, as I mentioned.
They should be immutable value classes,
like NSString, NSNumber,
and you can also make them scalar types.
Key value coding will automatically
do boxing and unboxing across a
large number of the standard C types.
And when you're doing your public
access or methods on your subclass,
just remember to post the
KVO notifications that are appropriate.
The examples and the templates that
you build using the design tool will
show you how to do that properly.
Unmodeled properties are basically
IVARs that you've put on your subclass
that you don't tell Core Data about.
So you have a subclass,
you make some IVARs,
and you don't put them in
the entity's description.
You don't put them in your model.
This is fine.
You just have to manage
all this yourself.
So this is where you
can stash data aside.
Basically,
Core Data is not going to persist these.
We won't know about them,
so we won't include them
in our undo management.
And it's preformed customization.
You can maintain them in
the same callbacks you would
maintain a transient in.
So you can maintain them
in will save and did save,
awake from fetch, awake from insert,
and you can get rid of them,
clean these things up,
and did turn default.
So NSManagedObject is your
basic subject of these actions,
and the managed object context is where
you're gonna find a lot of the actions.
So here's where it is in
our architecture diagram.
And this provides a context,
a scratch pad,
as we've discussed in the previous
sessions for all of your changes.
It does change tracking,
relationship maintenance.
It's where you're gonna
find a lot of the verbs.
If you wanna save, fetch, undo,
reset everything,
you'll find those actions described as
methods on the Manage Object Context.
So this is a good place
to go for your actions.
So for finding data,
we've covered this in previous sessions,
go over briefly fetch requests,
which have an entity,
that's the type of data
you're looking for,
a predicate, which is optional,
and a sort descriptor, which is also,
again, optional.
And predicates and sort descriptors
are both described in foundation.
You pass the request to the context
you want to fetch these objects
and associate them with using
the execute fetch request method.
Two things that weren't covered
very deeply in previous sessions,
there are two other ways.
If you have an object ID,
you can ask a context
for exactly that object.
And you can use object with ID,
which will always give you a proxy.
So it's not going to go to the file
and make sure that that row exists.
It's going to give you
a proxy for that ID.
And whenever you use it,
it will automatically
go off and get the data.
You can also use object
registered for ID,
which will only give you back
a result if it's already been
registered with the context.
So that's a way to distinguish between
something you've already fetched.
And you need to take an ID and
turn it into an object or something
for which you just want a proxy.
It's important to note unsaved
changes affect fetching.
So the context is providing you
a view around a set of changes.
And when you do fetches,
those changes are gonna be
reflected in the results.
So what this means is that the context
has to take the predicate that you've
associated with the fetch request
and check if any of the inserted
objects match it because the XML file
or SQLite isn't gonna be able to
know about these newly inserted
objects that you haven't saved yet.
And it's also gonna have to take
into consideration deletions that
you haven't saved yet and whether
or not any changes you've made will
change the results of that predicate.
For this reason,
if you have a lot of unsaved changes,
it's gonna be a bit slower
when you do a fetch.
- Deleting an object from a
context is pretty straightforward.
There's just a delete method.
And what I really want to drive home
here is that a lot of these things
are queued up until you actually save.
So with the delete method,
you have a pending delete,
and that object is marked.
You can ask it, you know,
are you deleted?
And it'll say, yeah,
I'll be deleted in the next save.
But those changes are coalesced,
and you can still work with the object.
It's perfectly valid until
you save that deletion.
Saving changes,
the managed object context, as I said,
it coalesces all these changes together.
So it'll grab all the inserts,
the deletes, and it'll create a request,
and it'll ask the persistent
store coordinator to go off
and handle that request.
And the persistent store
coordinator will figure out which
objects should go to which file,
which store, and send off appropriate
requests to those stores,
and each store will then use its own
native mechanism for dealing with it.
So our XML store uses
foundations and as XML.
The SQLite store obviously
talks with SQLite,
and the binary store
is using key archiving.
So there are a bunch of different
things if you've made some changes
and you want to get rid of them.
Rollback will set you back
to the previous saved state.
So that's,
you've made some changes and you want
to go back to what you're doing and
continue working with the context.
Reset will turn the context
back into its zero state,
its initial state,
and that will invalidate all of the
objects associated with that context.
So you won't be able to use any
of those references anymore.
This is really mostly useful if you have
a context and it's wired into a nib or
a controller and it's really difficult
to just release it and have it dealloc
and create a new one and replace it.
If you're working with code,
your own context,
you'd probably just throw away the
old context and create a new one.
And then we provide undo support for you.
We can undo and redo across saves,
handle relationships,
deletions propagating through
a series of relationships,
and that all works.
We use the standard NSUndoManager
API provided in foundation.
You can get an undo
manager from the context.
And configure it using
the undo manager API.
So for instance, you may, oh,
and we also do event-based undo
groupings with the undo manager.
So you can call process pending
changes to alter that and to
immediately coalesce all the
changes that the context might make.
And this is how you might, for instance,
get the undo manager from the context,
flush out any pending changes
using process pending changes,
and then tell the undo manager to disable
further changes and do some stuff,
flush out those changes,
and then re-enable the undo management.
So for synchronizing changes,
you have a bunch of different
contexts in your application.
There's some issues
with keeping data fresh.
Basically,
if you've pulled in data into a context,
we try not to disturb
that unless you ask us to.
So if you refetch the data,
we're gonna give you the view
that you were working with.
So you'll need to use refresh object
with the merge changes parameter to force
us to throw away the view of the object
you're working with and get the latest.
You can also use the
set stillness interval,
which will kind of automatically
tell us that you wanna go back
to the file and refetch new data
at a particular time interval.
And the alternative here,
which is kind of what we encourage,
unless you are specifically poking
at an object that you wanna refresh,
is to just let the data get stale.
And if there's a conflict,
handle the conflict.
And you do that with a merge policy.
So talk a bit about merge policies.
And what merge policies are is a
way of handling conflicting rights.
If you have multiple threads working
with different contexts and they
both try to write to the same data,
you're gonna have to resolve that.
And the merge policy is a way of
telling the framework what you wanna do.
But you can also get into a
situation where you have a
bunch of different contexts,
just a single thread,
say you have an inspector window,
and they both manage the same object.
They do a save.
you're going to have to
do something about that.
So basically what the framework does
is we detect these conflicts and
it's an optimistic locking paradigm.
This is a fairly standard paradigm where
basically we keep information about the
objects you fetched and whether or not
change has been made to those objects.
And we write out those changes and we
assume that the saves are gonna succeed.
And if the store says, nope,
I can't do that 'cause the data's
changed up from underneath you,
we'll get this failure,
we'll roll back the transaction,
and we'll report it to you.
It's important that there's a slight
difference between the store types.
So the XML and the binary
store types are atomic,
which means you read and
write them in their entirety.
So they'll work like an NS document.
They'll just overwrite
whatever's on disk.
So it will only detect conflicts
within your application,
within the same persistent
store coordinator.
But the SQLite store does
partial reads and writes,
and it will handle,
if you have multiple processes
writing to the same SQLite file,
it'll handle conflict detection there.
And the basic merge policies we have,
we have five of them.
They're fairly simple.
The error merge policy
is the default one.
This is mostly a reminder
that you haven't set one,
but it also has a user info dictionary
that will describe in great detail,
which objects had conflicts,
which properties they were.
And you can use that information if
you want a very customized approach.
You can get that,
you can refresh those objects and
then save again using the information
in the user info dictionary.
The next four are prepackaged.
They'll do all the work for you.
They won't even report a conflict.
They'll just resolve it for you.
And the overwrite merge policy is
basically the last writer wins.
This is if you want sort of
an NSDocument-style behavior.
The rollback merge policy
is the first writer wins,
and any subsequent writers, excuse me,
basically will throw away their changes
and pull in what the first person did.
And then the next two
are basically those,
but on a property-by-property basis.
So any properties that
haven't been changed,
you'll be able to write over,
and then the properties which conflict,
you'll resolve as either a first
writer or last writer wins.
Now, you can also have conflicts that
are sort of semantic conflicts
with data that you haven't changed.
For instance, if you go to Expedia and
you book a flight that has
a bunch of different legs,
then you try to check out,
you'll notice that if the flight
prices have changed in between
the time you started the process,
I find that when I book
flights near midnight,
this seems to happen a lot,
then when I check out, it says,
I can't do that because
the prices have changed.
So one way you can use is
there's a method on the context.
It's called detect conflicts for object.
And what this will do is this will flag
an object that you want to make sure that
it hasn't changed out from beneath you.
So if you have a running total
that's saved on a third object,
and then you have cost and
cost two on separate objects,
and the costs haven't changed
when you make your running total,
and you just want to write
out a new running total,
you can mark those cost
one and cost two objects.
And ensure that they don't
change out from underneath you,
particularly like with the
SQLite store if you have another
application working with that file.
So I'm going to talk a little bit
about using multiple contexts with
working with different change sets.
[Transcript missing]
So a few details.
Inserted objects have temporary IDs,
so only the context that has that
inserted object will be able to see it,
and other contexts won't.
So again,
same as if you're moving objects between
applications using a URI representation,
you have the same issue here,
working with different contexts.
You probably want to save the
object before it's visible.
It's in the next context.
Also, if you're trying to decide whether
or not you want to work with one
persistent store coordinator or
multiple persistent store coordinators,
one thing to keep in mind is sharing a
persistent store coordinator is going
to share the caches that Core Data uses
to help speed things up and know
which objects you're working with
and which you've already fetched.
And multiple persistent
store coordinators is going
to duplicate that caching.
All right,
so I'm gonna hand you back over
to Melissa right now to talk about
the persistent store coordinator.
So what you've heard until now is
pretty much the stuff that you are
mostly going to be working with.
But just because it's really useful
and sometimes will avoid having
you shoot yourself in the foot,
it's helpful to know about how
things work under the covers.
And that would be the persistent
store coordinator and the object
stores and all the stuff down
there at the bottom of the stack.
Persistent Store Coordinator is
essentially a bridge between the
object lifecycle management that is
done by the managed object context
and the persistence mechanism,
which is the stores.
In a very real sense,
it's the center of the frameworks world.
You've got one persistent
store coordinator per stack,
but you can have any number of
managed object contexts on top of it,
and any other number of persistent
stores spewed out on the bottom.
There's only ever going to be
one persistent store coordinator.
Its main purpose is to provide
a facade of there being a single
store to the managed object context.
The managed object context
doesn't need to know or care about
where its data is coming from.
It just knows it talks to the
persistence store coordinator,
the persistence store
coordinator takes care of stuff.
When you create a persistence
store coordinator,
you initialize it with
a managed object model,
and at that point when you do that,
that managed object model gets frozen.
We talked earlier about
modifying models at runtime.
You can only do that until you attach
one to a persistence store coordinator.
If you try and do it after that,
you'll get exceptions.
If you've already looked
at the documentation,
then yes, we've heard this.
A lot of you have said, "What?
There's no NSObjectStore,
NSPersistentStore API?" No, there isn't.
All interaction goes through the
NSPersistentStore coordinator.
And you create stores
using the AddStore API,
and we have a number of types
that we support out of the box.
It's the binary, XML, SQLite,
and in-memory store types.
Which brings us to a decision when
you're building an application.
What kind of store do we want to use?
Each type has its advantages
and disadvantages.
For example,
the XML store is probably the
slowest of all of our stores.
As we all know,
XML is big and slow to parse.
It takes in and writes out the
whole object graph all at once,
but it does have the unique advantage
of being externally parsable,
and you can transform the data in
your XML store using an XSLT so
that other applications can read it.
We've also got a binary store,
which is a lot faster than the
XML store and even faster than
the SQL store if we're talking
pure qualification in memory.
It takes a bit longer to load in,
a lot longer if you've
got a huge object graph.
And again, it works on the whole graph.
This is probably the best kind of
store for if you want to do application
preferences or that kind of thing.
Fairly small object graph
that's neatly contained.
Doesn't have any of those
other advantages though.
There's the SQLite store,
which is going to be the
fastest for most things.
It has a really,
really huge advantage in scalability
in that it's capable of having
only pieces of your object
graph read in at any one time.
Just the subset of objects that
you're actually working with now.
It's really, really useful.
You don't need to care or
manage any of the other stuff.
We also have an in-memory store,
which is fast and which also
manages the whole object graph,
but doesn't have a backing store.
And why would you care about that?
I mean, it's just like any other store.
It doesn't save to disk.
Why would I use that?
It can be useful if you've got objects
that you want to have transient.
We have an example of this in the
Core Recipes application where we
have the smart groups that appear
in the left-hand browser for the
library and for the imported files.
We just create those and stuff
them into an in-memory store,
which we can then use and query
and join relationships off of.
They never get saved because
we don't really need to take
up space on disk with it.
I mean, they're always the same.
We can create them up front every time,
but we need them to act
like managed objects.
That's how you do it.
They also have one other really huge use,
which is handling legacy file formats.
Well,
At this point,
I'd say it's a safe bet that none
of you have a Core Data application,
so none of you have your data
being stored in one of the
Core Data specific formats.
If you did,
I'm pretty sure somebody wants to
talk to you about violation of NDAs.
So how do you deal with Core Data?
How do you use Core Data?
There's a lot of advantages
in Core Data that aren't
just specific to persistence.
You may want to use all of the
object lifecycle management stuff,
but you still, for one reason or another,
need to live with your
legacy file format.
You create your stack and back
it with an in-memory store.
And in your initialization methods
for your application or your load
methods for your application,
you read in your data
in your legacy format.
You go through, create NSNNs,
and then you go through and create
your own legacy file format.
So how do you deal with Core Data?
How do you use Core Data?
There's a lot of advantages
in Core Data that aren't
just specific to persistence.
You may want to use all of the
object lifecycle management stuff,
but you still, for one reason or another,
need to live with your
legacy file format.
You create your stack and back
it with an in-memory store.
And in your initialization methods
for your application or your load
methods for your application,
you read in your data
in your legacy format.
You go through, create NSNNs,
and then you go through and create
your own legacy file format.
- I'm afraid.
And then you save,
and they get shoved off
down to the in-memory store,
and you can then register and catch for
the NSManagedObjectDidSave notification.
And at that point, you go off,
pull all those objects associated
with the in-memory store out,
serialize them using whatever
mechanism you were using before,
and stuff them back out
in your legacy file.
This gives you the ability to
switch slowly over to Core Data.
You don't have to go whole hog.
You don't have to do it all at once.
You don't have to write everything.
You don't have to severely upset your
management chain when they're going,
well, we have this file format we've
had for the last 10 years.
We want to keep it.
You can still use Core Data and
get a lot of the benefits of it
by using the in-memory store.
Switching a little bit,
we'll talk about working
with multiple stores.
Ben has talked about this.
I've talked about this.
You can have one
persistent store corridor,
multi-stores.
By default, if you have a stack that
has multiple stores,
we're going to send the fetch
request when you request information
to retrieve data from all stores
that could possibly contain objects
of the type you're looking for.
You can use the affected stores
accessor on the fetch requests to
narrow down your queries so you only
get objects back from a specific store.
We also, if you're using multiple stores,
will automatically do object
assignment at save time.
We'll basically go through all of the
inserted objects in your object graph,
figure out which stores they can be
assigned to based on which entities
are in which stores and which entities
your object has relationships to.
We'll figure out the best
fit and put it in there.
Sometimes we can't do this because
you've done something that's a little
not kosher and we'll return it and say,
we've done what we can,
you're going to have to do the rest.
Or if you want to avoid that entirely,
you can assign objects when you
create them using the NSManagedObject
assign object to persistent store API.
You use configurations,
we mentioned those earlier in the model,
they're a way of creating named
groups of entities to assign
sets of entities to stores.
You do this when you add the store
to the persistent store coordinator,
one of the parameters in that call is
a configuration name which you'll use
to say which entities go in that store.
There's some considerations
that you have to,
there's some things you have to
take into account if you're using
multiple stores and Cocoa bindings,
which is that out of the box,
we don't support
cross-store relationships.
So if you tie this with the
first bullet point on this slide,
which is that we fetch,
we retrieve all data from all stores.
If you have,
back in the Core Recipes example,
chefs and recipes in a number of stores,
you have a pop-up list backed
by an NSArray controller that
knows it is fetching chefs.
It may and will actually fetch chefs
from both stores when you're in your
recipes view and trying to figure out
which chef to assign the recipe for.
You're going to have to be careful
and do some workarounds to,
you know, make sure that the chefs that
appear in that pop-up list...
Don't accidentally create
a cross-store relationship.
So you're really going to have to
think about this kind of thing.
This is where using the affected
stores accessors to narrow down the
sets of objects can come in really,
really useful.
So you have to think about that when
you're using bindings and a core data
application with multiple stores.
There's lots and lots of stuff I could
go on for like 15 minutes about it,
but that gives you enough of a pointer
to know where to go look for things,
what to think about.
As Ben mentioned earlier,
store migration, save as,
is pretty simple.
There's one call on the
persistent store coordinator.
Some things you need to think about
when you're doing it is that it
works by pulling everything in the
store into memory and resaving it.
It's kind of time and memory expensive.
And once it's done, the old object store
is going to be removed.
The managed object context is
designed to take care of this.
We'll switch object
IDs out from under it.
But the object IDs themselves in
those managed objects that you've
got a hold of will be invalid,
will change, among other things,
the store ID when we do this.
So you're going to have
to get rid of those object
IDs and somehow retrieve them.
Best to hang onto if you know
that you're going to be doing this
managed objects rather than IDs.
But I said it's simple
and that's the call.
That's all you have
to do to do a Save As.
This is just sort of the
random stuff section.
So at some point,
you're going to have to decide what kind
of Core Data stack you want to build.
Do you want to use an
NS-persistent document or not?
The answer is actually pretty simple.
You're going to want to use
NS-persistent document if your
data is completely encapsulated,
doesn't have relationships.
You don't need to worry about
data coming up from other sources.
Otherwise, you're going to want a
non-document-based application.
The big bug about
cross-story relationships.
We've had questions about this, and,
well, it's not supported out of the box.
But there is a way to implement
it using the transient properties
that we've talked about
and/or using fresh properties.
But in both cases,
you're going to need a custom subclass
of NSManagedObject to do the dirty work.
There's two basic patterns.
One of which is that you update
the persistent storage-- I'll
explain that in a sec-- at set
time when you set the attribute,
the relationship.
Sorry.
You override your custom accessor to
push data into a backing attribute,
and you'll--
is the founder and founder
of the Backing Store.
He's been working on the
Backing Store for over 20 years.
He's been working on a
number of other things,
including the Backing Store for the
Create an object that has two properties,
one of which is the
relationship property,
and you mark that as transient.
The other of which is
going to be an attribute,
and it's going to be an NSData,
and it's going to contain all
of the information about the
objects in that relationship.
For example, say we have a model that we
want to have look like this.
We've got a Chef object, managed object,
has first name, last name,
and a bunch of recipes.
We have a recipe object with a name,
description,
and a relationship back to that Chef.
What do we do if we want to have that
relationship cross a store boundary?
Well, the first thing we have to
do is on both objects we have
to add an NSData attribute,
call it recipes_urls and chef_id_url.
And then we get into the writing of code.
We've chosen to use the second
pattern here in WillSave.
Call super WillSave.
This is our access.
Go off and grab the
managed object ID for,
I believe we're working on
the recipe side of things.
So this is getting the recipe chef,
getting its managed object ID,
getting its URI representation,
and we shove it into that.
[Transcript missing]
Grab the managed object context,
get the coordinator.
This is a complicated thing, sort of.
Or at least it takes some code.
Get the managed object ID for
that URI representation,
and then ask the context
to get that object.
This really requires that both stores
be there in the before and after case.
If the store at the destination of this
cross-store relationship has not been
added to the coordinator at this point,
you're going to get a nil back.
Set the managed object ID you got in the
previous step in the Chef relationship,
and you now have a relationship
that bridges the stores.
It's a little bit clunky,
but it's probably the best way to do it.
Set the managed object ID you got in the
previous step in the Chef relationship,
and you now have a relationship
that bridges the stores.
It's a little bit clunky,
but it's probably the best way to do it.
Great, so we're on the home stretch here.
So just a quick note that
there is spotlight integration.
As Matt mentioned in the intro session,
these are very
complimentary technologies,
and the Core Recipes example provides a
sampling of how you can do this yourself.
The recommended way of doing this,
particularly for small
amounts of metadata,
is to put that information
in the store metadata.
The coordinator has a method.
You can set the metadata for the
store when you save the store,
and then you can get it back using
metadata for persistent store with URL,
and that will get it without
creating a Core Data stack.
So that you can do on an instance of
the NSPersistentStoreCoordinator class,
as opposed to creating
a whole stack yourself.
Now, this does duplicate the information
that you put in the metadata,
because the metadata for the stores
is saved separately from the actual
persistent data for those objects.
It is, however, the recommended approach.
It's the fastest way of working
with Spotlight and keeping your
Spotlight importer importer lien.
So for really large amounts of metadata,
the Spotlight team doesn't
really encourage this,
but you can create a persistent
store stack within your importer.
It's gonna be a bit slower,
but at the least, then you won't have to
duplicate the metadata.
So your mileage may vary and you
can experiment with that approach.
The Core Recipes approach
takes the first approach.
and it's on your WWDC CD.
I'm not gonna talk any more about
that other than refer you to the
example and you can post questions
on the COCODIP mailing list.
Again, so memory management for
these advanced topics,
I'm trying to help you understand
what the right questions to ask are.
We don't really have time
to answer everything,
I'm afraid.
But one of the most important
things to note is the managed
objects and their associated
context do not retain each other.
There's basically a weak
reference between the two.
So the managed objects,
when you're done using them,
you release them, they can just go away.
The context doesn't maintain a
separate retain count on them.
And in this way,
the framework also provides
managed objects to work as
sort of lightweight proxies.
And we call them faults.
And it's very analogous to
your virtual memory paging,
your demand paging.
If you fetch an object and it has a
relationship to a bunch of other objects,
you don't have to fetch
those other objects.
You can use key value coding and just
walk the relationship like you might
normally with value for key path.
And Core Data will handle figuring
out where all those objects
are and bring them into memory.
And when you're done using them,
you can get the faults to go away.
Malcolm Crawford, who's over here,
has done an excellent job in
the Core Data Programming Guide.
And the section Using Managed
Objects talks very heavily about
the nitty-gritty details about
memory management with Core Data.
And that actually should answer
all of your questions in this.
So some notes on handling
really large data sets.
And by this,
I mean many tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands,
possibly even millions of records.
Is basically to use the Escalite store.
Okay.
When you can for this.
So I do know people who have
worked with tens of millions
of rows with Escalite directly.
And I myself,
the performance testing that we do
is hundreds and hundreds of thousands
of records through Core Data.
So it's really pretty well.
The binary store is your second best
option if you need the NS document
atomic reading and writing behavior.
And that will probably get
you to a few thousand objects.
And your keynote here is to
minimize the working set.
So as you have more and more data,
you're going to want your fetch
requests to have predicates
that are more and more specific.
To only retain the things you need,
once you're done with them,
release the managed objects and the
framework will clean up afterwards.
And basically just let them
get turned into faults.
So to talk briefly about threading,
Malcolm has thoughtfully volunteered
or been volunteered to write
a programming guide on this.
It's forthcoming,
but this should get you started
with some of the basics.
So the Core Data classes,
for the most part,
except for the managed object ID,
are not thread-safe intrinsically.
A lot of fine-grained locking that
you don't need would slow you down,
so we don't do it.
So NSManagedObject has
similar restrictions to,
say, an NSMutable dictionary.
The Core Data framework itself,
internally, makes sure that it does the
right thing when it's working,
particularly between a context
and that context coordinator,
so you don't have to worry about
objects that you're not working with.
The framework will do the right thing for
the things that it does behind your back,
but for the objects that
you are working with,
you're going to have to take care
to use them in a thread-safe way.
And you really either need to
lock these objects or not share
them at all if you use them.
And by use them,
I mean you pass a message to them.
You send a message to
one of these objects,
or you access one of these objects.
I'm Arsene.
So some threading tips is
I strongly recommend that each
thread has its own private context.
If you're not sharing the context,
then you don't have to lock it.
It makes things much,
much easier to deal with.
And it also provides,
as I'll talk about in a little bit,
a little more consistency in
the implications of what all
those change sets are doing,
because each context is tracking
a different set of changes.
So you can only pass managed
object IDs between threads.
And it's okay to pass
them as just pointers.
You don't have to convert them
into URIs and pass them back,
although you can if you want to.
And I recommend that you do
not pass managed objects or the
context between threads directly.
That gets into a lot of very
fine-grained locking and can
be very difficult to get right.
So here's basically the approach
that I recommend you start out with.
If you want to work with
multiple threads in Core Data,
and each of those contexts is
working with a different thread,
they share a persistent
store coordinator.
So you share all the caching,
and this works for the
XML and the binary stores,
as well as the SQLite store.
And you can have as many persistent
backends as you would like.
One alternative is you can instead
have an entire stack per thread.
This will get you a
little more concurrency.
As you see, there's no bottleneck at the
persistent store coordinator level.
This only works with the SQLite store,
and there's no shared caching,
so there's gonna be a little
impact on your memory.
So the locking isn't
just about thread safety.
The contexts are tracking
changes and essentially represent
a scope of a transaction,
a view of a working set of changes.
So by preventing interspersing,
like locking and unlocking
of these contexts,
you also prevent
interspersing of changes.
You have different threads inserting
changes into the context and maybe
undoing and other threads changes,
stuff like that.
It gets very complicated.
So that's why...
I recommend that you just have
a private context per thread.
It's important to note that the
way the framework is designed,
that a thread must own the context
for a managed object in order
to access the managed object.
The managed objects themselves are
treated as too finely grained to
lock and unlock separately yourself.
You should lock the context that owns
them because the context is the one
that's doing the change tracking.
One last note, so again,
look for Malcolm's
forthcoming programming guide.
Malcolm, one second, be ready.
Is that Cocoa Bindings
is not thread safe.
And if you wanna work
with your controller,
you must do that on the main thread.
There's no way around that.
There's nothing I can do about it.
But if you wanna add or remove
an object from a controller,
you're gonna have to use
perform selector on main thread.
That's actually true for a lot
of different app kit issues.
It's much easier to work
with it on the main thread.
and some notifications.
This is a summary of the
notifications we presented to you.
And this is the best place for you
to do your own customization of
the framework behavior outside of
subclassing and managed objects.
So if you want to change the way a
context or coordinator is doing things.
So the manage object context
has two notifications.
It has an objects did change notification
that gets sent when it coalesces
the changes at the end of the event.
So every time a set of an event
ends that has had changes,
you'll get this notification.
There are a bunch of keys in it, insert,
update, and delete the keys.
These are sets of the manage objects
that have changed during that past event.
And the controller actually listens
to this notification itself to
figure out its own behavior.
And then there's the
did save notification,
which is presented to you a number
of times for using the in-memory
store to track when someone's
actually saved a set of changes.
The persistent store coordinator
also posts a notification,
and that stores did change,
and this is whenever a
store gets added or removed,
or the UUID, the real unique reference
to that store has changed.
It provides an array of the
stores that actually changed.
The persistent store coordinator
also posts a notification,
and that stores did change,
and this is whenever a
store gets added or removed,
or the UUID, the real unique reference
to that store has changed.
It provides an array of the
stores that actually changed.
And primitive key value coding
does not trigger key value
observing notifications.
section on some common errors that
have come up and some things is
basically changing the model and
trying to read the data again.
I know we've had a lot of
questions about schema versioning.
Currently version one of the
framework doesn't support this.
So you can't do it.
You'll have to bring up a
stack as Melissa described,
reading the old data and say that again.
If you're doing your
own custom accessors,
forgetting to send the KVO notifications
will cause lots of things to go awry.
The controllers won't know
that you're doing that.
They won't know that
you've changed things.
Neither will the context be able to track
those changes and update those inverses.
So if you start misusing the
primitive key value coding,
you'll see things get out of sync.
And then another sort of general
kind of paradigm issue is not
really letting the framework drive.
Like I mentioned,
the lifecycle of managed object is
largely controlled by the framework.
It'll fetch them and
save them and whatnot.
So it's best to work within the callbacks
we provide you or the notifications and
let the framework do the heavy lifting.
So one of these is that it
could not merge changes.
And this is if you come
across a situation,
maybe you have two contexts
with different sets of changes
in an inspector window,
you try to save,
and you haven't set a merge policy.
You'll get this.
And then here,
Core Data could not fulfill a fault.
So here you've given Core Data an
object ID and you've asked
for an object back with it,
and that object doesn't exist.
It's been deleted out
from underneath you.
We had a proxy for that row,
but the row's gone.
So you'll get this message,
and you're gonna have to discard the
object because it's been deleted,
basically.
And then here, this class is not key
value coding compliant.
This will happen if you have
your standard typo in a key,
or if you initialize the
object accidentally with -init
instead of init with entity in
certain managed object context.
Like I said,
you have to initialize it with our
designated initializer so we know what
entity that object just belongs to,
and we can find all of its properties.
So here you can't assign an
object to a store that does not
contain the object's entity.
You can only assign them to stores
that have been configured with
the coordinator when you added
the store that has that entity.
and then here you can't
reassign an object to a store.
Once it's been saved,
you'll have to basically insert
it again into a new store and
then delete it from the old store.
So you basically have to do a copy.
and then here you can't
reassign an object to a store.
Once it's been saved,
you'll have to basically insert
it again into a new store and
then delete it from the old store.
So you basically have to do a copy.
and then here you can't
reassign an object to a store.
Once it's been saved,
you'll have to basically insert
it again into a new store and
then delete it from the old store.
So you basically have to do a copy.
So for more information, WWDC,
so the Core Recipes example.
and at your fingertips here,
the Core Data Programming Guide.
A lot of these sessions,
if you read the guide,
will make a lot more sense.
Malcolm's done a great job in explaining
all the nitty-gritty details of various
different issues with Core Data.
And there are a bunch of
other different guides.
There are a bunch of examples installed
with the developer tools on your system.
and again,
Core Recipes installed on the developer
CD you have for the conference.
[Transcript missing]